We began with the premise that Lauren’s portfolio should not be a chore to update. She shouldn’t require any proprietary software and, if possible, she shouldn’t need to log into a dashboard full of features that she doesn’t really need. The site itself should be lightweight, fast, and responsive (displaying the work beautifully on all screen sizes) with special attention paid to smartphone size, as that is where the work will likely be viewed most often.

We anticipated that Lauren, being a designer, would already have a really meticulously organized file system in place for her work on her own computer, so we saw no point in constructing a completely different method of organization by using a traditional database. Instead we chose the Kirby framework because we knew it would function really well with the way Lauren already organizes her work (Kirby is unique in that it structures the website content based on the organization of a user’s regular file folders).

Kirby is anti-database in the interest of simplicity and speed. It also doesn’t require any fancy software in order to update the content; you can just drag and drop images into a computer’s file folders and use a basic text editor to update the individual project files.

Because Lauren is pretty tech-savvy and a quick learner, we’ve also set her site up with a robust versioning system using Github and Beanstalk, which means that all edits to the site are reversible, so she can always roll back. As a nod to Lauren’s specialization in publication design, the overall layout is presented as a 50/50 split screen to reference the spreads of a book.
